# MA1521 — Calculus for Computing

> Source: NUSMods 2025-2026 — https://api.nusmods.com/v2/2025-2026/modules/MA1521.json
> Fetched: 2026-06-21

- Module credits: 4
- Faculty / department: Science / Mathematics
- Offered: Semester 1, Semester 2
- Grading: Graded

## Description

This course provides a basic foundation for calculus and its related subjects required by computing students. The objective is to train the students to be able to handle calculus techniques arising in their courses of specialisation. In addition to the standard calculus material, the course also covers simple mathematical modeling techniques and numerical methods in connection with ordinary differential equations. Major topics: Preliminaries on sets and number systems. Calculus of functions of one variable and applications. Sequences, series and power series. Functions of several variables. Extrema. First and second order differential equations. Basic numerical methods for ordinary differential equations.

## Workload (hours per week)

- Lectures: 3 hrs/week
- Tutorials: 1 hrs/week
- Preparation: 6 hrs/week

## Prerequisites

If undertaking an Undergraduate Degree THEN (( must have completed 1 of 06 MATHEMATICS/07 FURTHER MATHEMATICS at a grade of at least E) OR ( must have completed 1 of MA1301/MA1301X at a grade of at least D))

## Preclusions

If undertaking an Undergraduate Degree THEN (( must not have completed 1 of MA1312/MA1505/MA1511/MA2002/YSC1216 at a grade of at least D) AND (must not be undertaking 1 of 0601BMEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Biomedical Engineering) (Hons), 0602CHEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Chemical Engineering) (Hons), 0604ELEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Electrical Engineering) (Hons), 0605ESPHON Bachelor of Engineering (Engineering Science) (Hons), 0607ISEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Industrial and Systems Engineering) (Hons), 0608MSEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Materials Science and Engineering) (Hons), 0609MEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) (Hons), 0611CHEHON Bachelor of Technology (Chemical Engineering) (Hons), 0611ELCHON Bachelor of Technology (Electronics Engineering) (Hons), 0611IMEHON Bachelor of Technology (Industrial & Mgt Engineering) (Hons), 0611MEHON Bachelor of Technology (Mechanical Engineering) (Hons), 0613CEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Civil Engineering) (Hons), 0613EVEHON Bachelor of Engineering (Environmental Engineering) (Hons), 2001CEGHON Bachelor of Engineering (Computer Engineering) (Hons), 1003MAHON Bachelor of Science - Mathematics (Hons), 1003QFNHON Bachelor of Science - Quantitative Finance (Hons), 1006DSAHON Bachelor of Science (Data Science and Analytics) (Hons), 1006DSEXDP Bachelor of Science - Data Sci & Econs (Hons) XDP, 1006STHON Bachelor of Science - Statistics (Hons)))

## Additional information

This course is open only to School of Computing students.
